Hi, my name is Brian Caffo and welcome to
the resampled inference lectures part of
the Coursera inference class, which is
part of our data sign specialization.
So the bootstrap,
is a tremendously important and
useful tool for construction confidence
intervals and standard errors, and
basically performing inferences where
it would otherwise be difficult.
Was invented in 1979 by a famous
statistician named Ephron who's in
the Stanford Statistics Department, easily
one of the top statisticians in history.
And I would say the bootstrap is one of
the, the most important procedures that's
been discovered in the,
in the history of statistics.
And, and the reason being that it
really liberated data analysts,
from having to do a lot of mathematics
in order to perform inferences.
So as, just as a simple example, if you
wanted to do a confidence interval for
the median, there are some kind
of complicated asymptotics that
you can appeal to, but
it involves a lot of mathematics.
On the other hand, you can just perform
a bootstrap and it gives you a confidence
interval for the median,
without having to do all of that work.
So it, you know maybe,
maybe dangerously so but none the less
it liberated people from having to do a
lot of complex mathematics, to understand
some distributional properties of
statistics that they calculated.
The phrase bootstrap, comes from that,
of the dev, the name of the procedure,
bootstrap, comes from the phrase, pullings
one selves up from their own bootstrap.
That phrase, I initially thought it came
from the Baron Munchausen character,
which, by the way, if you haven't seen the
Monty Python movie, you definitely should.
I, I, I thought it came from that, but
I've since read that it, maybe,
even existed earlier than that.
And the idea of pulling oneselves up
from one ow, one's own bootstrap,
is the idea of doing something
that's physically impossible.
And that's not a terribly appropriate
name, for what's going in this
statistical procedure of the bootstrap,
because we can draw a direct line.
From the information that we're using
to the inferences that we're making.
So, so it's not at all like pulling
oneself's up from one's own bootstraps.
It's quite possible and
how it's working is pretty clear.
So, it's an important technique.
It's very liberating.
And I think it's also very much so
in the spirit of data science.
So, consider this example imagine if we
wanted to evaluate the behavior
of the average of 50 die rolls.
So, our population distribution
is this left hand distribution.
The bar, equally weighted bars
with the values one through six.
And there's a couple of ways
we might go about doing that.
One is we could just try and
mathematically figure out,
what the distribution of the average
of 50 die rolls is with no simulation,
just doing the relevant
algebraic calculations.
Another way to do it would be to
roll a die 50 times, get an average,
and then repeat that process over and over
and get lot's of averages of 50 die rolls.
But, this is predicated on
us knowing that the true
population distribution is one
sixth of each number, right?
But, it does seem to be an easy way to do
things cause it would be hard to sort of
figure out exactly whats the probability
of getting a of 5.5, right?
Instead, it's easier to just
roll the dice 50 times, take
the average, repeat that over and over
again, and get a pretty good sense of it.
Now a lot of these things for
the average we don't have to do,
because we know things about
the distribution of the average.
We know that it's centered
at the population mean,
we know that its variance
is sigma squared over n.
Several things like that, but
I'm going to talk about it with respect to
the average first and
then you'll see hopefully,
how this extends to other
statistics other than the average.
So, let's consider a very similar problem.
Imagine if you didn't know whether or
not the die,
that was generating your data was fair.
We didn't know that it, the probabilities
that placed on one, two, three, four,
five or six.
So, what we have is one sample of size 50,
so
we only have one average,
not a distribution of average from the,
from whatever the die was
that was generating the data.
So here, on the left-hand side,
I'm showing you the histogram
of the various occurrences one,
two, three, four, five, six for
one sample realization that
we drew from this population.
Now, I can't evaluate what's the behavior
of averages of 50 die rolls from
this population.
Because, I don't know what the population
is, I don't what die to roll from.
To execute the simulation exercise.
So what bootstrapping says is, well,
why don't we do the next best thing?
Why don't we sample from our empirical
distribution, repeatedly sample?
Collections of 50 die rolls not
from the true distribution, but
from whatever our sample
size 50 estimates.
So in this case,
I would sample from these blue bars
with the heights, with the probabilities
related to the heights and
I would do that over and
over again and I would get averages.
Repeated averages of 50 draws
from this distribution, and
that would tell me about the distribution
of averages even though I only
get to observe one real true average
from the, from the real population.
And that's the process of bootstrapping.
Mechanically, what we're doing is
taking each observation, each one, two,
three, four, five, or six, that we get,
and throwing them into a bag, and
then drawing out samples of size 50.
Where we're drawing with replacements,
is the same number might,
same data point might get taken
up twice in this process.
Sampling from that bag samples of size 50,
taking the average and repeating
that process over and over again.
But, the fundamental idea,
the fundamental idea is,
is to exactly replicate
our simulation experiment.
That we would have done if we could
roll the true population die,
with the observed
distribution generated by
the specific one realization of
50 die rolls that we got, okay?
And, so
that's the basic bootstrap principle,
we use our data, our observed data.
To construct an estimated population
distribution, we simulate from
that population distribution to
figure out the distribution,
of a statistic that we're interested it,
and that's the basic idea.
So let,
we'll go through some examples with,
with less contrived
settings than this example.